Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming language is a computer language which is used to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets
of instructions for computers to execute.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Archive(Jar): Combines multiple java files or applets into a single archive.

Java Compiler(javac):vac is the Compiler used in Java, javac tool it is location in the /bin folder of the JDK
installation directory. Java Compiler reads all the class informations, interfaces and the other codes written in Java
programming language and compiles them into byte code (.class file).

Java Disassembler (javap):
javap is also located in the /bin folder of the JDK installation directory. Java Disassembler disassembles one or more
classes which is passed. The javap command prints the package, protected and public fields, and methods of the classes
passed to it. The javap command prints its output to stdout.

Java Debugger (jdb) :
Java Debugger (jdb) is a command-line debugger for Java classes it helps us in debugging our Java code. In order to
start debugging we simply need to give the class name after jdb

Java Header File Generator (javah) :
A. javah command generates C header and source files (.h file) which is needed to implement native methods. The generated
header and source files can be used by C programs to reference an object’s instance variables from native source code.


What is IDE?
A. A Java IDE is an integrated development environment for programming in Java; many also provide functionality for other
languages, IDEs typically provide a code editor, a compiler or interpreter and a debugger that the developer accesses
through a unified graphical user interface ( GUI ).


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio Code, BlueJ, DrJava, XCode and Jdeveloper.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. We can use any text editor to create the high-level Java text file. This file is saved as a .java file called source code
on the disk. We then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the
disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode
verifier confirms that the bytecodes are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and
translates them into machine code.


what is class?
A. Class is the blueprint of an object.


What is object?
A. Object is th instance of a class.


What is the entry point of an application?
A. The Main method.

Why main is static?
A. Java main method is always static, so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object or
before the creation of an object of the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object is the super class of all other classes. And we will see the following methods are inherited from
Object in every class.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable that is used to refer the location of Java executable files.
Classpath is an environment variable that is used to refer the location of the class files.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. In an interface, you can't instantiate variable and create an object. The interface cannot contain concrete(with
implementation) methods.In Interface only one specifier is used- Public.
An abstract class is not fully abstract. Implemented methods we can modify by our way and we
can we create return/ nonReturn method in concrete class. A class that is declared abstract—it may or may not include
abstract methods.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. NO, we can't create object out of an interface or Abstract class because Main intention of creating an object is to
utilize the wrapped methods and data. As interface don't have any concrete implementation hence we cannot. For abstract
class we may have concrete method or abstract method or both.


what is Access Specifier?
A. An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed to access a
specific variable or other piece of data.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object oriented Programming.
Abstraction= Implementation hiding
Encapsulation= Data hiding
Polymorphism= Polymorphism in Java is a concept by which we can perform a single
action in different ways.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains
Package with no name, java.lang Package and current package in which the current file is defined


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Java API is a set of libraries that are found in the standard Java distribution, and is called the JRE (Java Runtime).
So, every time you use something like Integer as a class for representing integers, you're using Java's API.
JAI,GOOGLE,JMF,ESR,JDO,JPA etc


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended
class have a same method name.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method overloading is an example of static binding where binding of method call to its definition happens at
Compile time.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.In Java, an exception is an event that disrupts the normal flow of the program. It is an object
which is thrown at runtime and exception handling is a mechanism to handle the
runtime errors so that normal flow of the application can be maintained.
By using try catch block and thros Exception for specific Exception.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
rather than to an instance of that type.Java static keyword is used to create a Class level variable in java. static
variables and methods are part of the class, not the instances of the class.
A static method can access only static variables of class and invoke only static methods of the class.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. The final keyword in java is used to restrict the user. can not be change.
If you make any variable as final, you cannot change the value of final variable(It will be constant).
If we make any method as final, we cannot override it.


What is final, finally and finalize?
A. The final keyword in java is used to restrict the user.
The finally keyword is used to execute code (used with exceptions - try..catch statements)
no matter if there is an exception or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.


What is a constructor ?
A. Constructor name should be same name as class,Constructor has no return type
and Constructor are used to initialize object.


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes,A class can have multiple constructors with different types of arguments and different number of arguments.


If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. If we don't declare a constructor, a default constructor is created.
It is possible for a class to have no constructor.


What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. The various
usages of 'THIS' keyword in Java are as follows: It can be used to refer instance variable of current class.
It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructo


What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.


Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes, It can run almost any platform.


What version of java are you using?
A. Version 11.0.8


What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive. It compressed version defferent java files to distrebute a set of Java classes.


What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK – Java Development Kit which provides the environment to develop and execute the Java program. It includes
JRE(Java Runtime Environment).
Java Virtual machine(JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program
line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. Java Virtual machine(JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program
line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.
Java Runtime Environment is an installation package which provides environment to only run the java program
onto your machine. JRE is only used by them who only wants to run the Java Programs i.e. end users of your system.


What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance
where the executable is running. The terms "runtime" and "compile time" are often used by programmers to refer to
different types of errors too.


What is heap?
A. Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is
allocated. Heap is created on virtual Machine. Dynamic variables stays in the heap.


How java manage it's memory?
A. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector. Thus, we are not required
to implement memory management logic in our application.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder can change their values.
The only difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuilder is unsynchronized whereas StringBuffer
is synchronized.


What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization in Java is a mechanism of writing the state of an object into a byte-stream.
The reverse operation of serialization is called deserialization where byte-stream is converted into an object.


when to use transient variable in java?
A. Transient variable in Java is a variable whose value is not serialized during Serialization
and which is initialized by its default value during de-serialization.
At the time of serialization, if we don’t want to save value of a particular variable in a file,
then we use transient keyword.


Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While Loop for condition check. While loop is used in situations where we do not know how many times loop needs to be
executed beforehand.
Do-While loop for Post condition check.
Do while loop execute at least one time then it will check condition.


What is Enum?
A. An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).


What is Iterator?
A. Iterator enables you to cycle through a collection, obtaining or removing elements.


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. In Java, int is a primitive data type while Integer is a Wrapper class.
Int takes 32 bits of memory
Integer takes 126 bits(16 bytes)

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. This way Java Runtime saves a lot of heap space because different String variables can refer to the same
String variable in the pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Java constructor chaining is a method of calling one constructor with the help of another while considering
the present object.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collection thread for the
Garbage Collection operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage Collection threads for the Garbage
Collection operation.


What is JIT stands for?
A. Just in time. It's the translation of computer program into machine language during execution time.


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes. Whenever we create an object,
it’s always created in the Heap space. Garbage Collection runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by objects
that don’t have any reference.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. It is possible to include a hint in the code to run the garbage collector with the System.gc() or Runtime.gc() methods,
but they provide no guarantee that the garbage collector will actually run.


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. JVM has divided memory space between two parts one is Stack and another one is Heap space. Stack space is mainly
used for storing order of method execution and local variables. Stack always stored blocks in LIFO order whereas heap
memory used dynamic allocation for allocating and deallocating memory blocks.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is commonly used by programs which require the ability to examine or modify the runtime behavior of
applications running in the Java virtual machine. This is a relatively advanced feature and should be used only by
developers who have a strong grasp of the fundamentals of the language.


what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process,
the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking. However,
we use multithreading than multiprocessing because threads use a shared memory area.


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization is used to protect access to resources that are accessed concurrently.


What is Framework?
A. Java Framework is the body or platform of pre-written codes used by Java developers to develop Java
applications or web applications.


What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber, DBUnit, TestNG etc.


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.
TestNG is a testing framework inspired by JUnit and NUnit. Differences. Advantages of TestNG. TestNG Annotations are
easy to understand over JUnit.


What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Maven and Gradle are common package managers for Java. They offer two primary ways for configuring dependencies:
individual management and grouped management. Individual management adds dependencies one by one. Grouped management
adds dependencies through a configuration file called “Bill of Materials” or BOM.


what is dependency injection in java?
A. Dependency injection is a technique that allows the client code to be independent from the services it is relying on.
The client does not control how objects of the services are created - it works with an implementation of the service
through interface.


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static Binding: The binding which can be resolved at compile time by compiler is known as static or early binding.
Binding of all the static, private and final methods is done at compile-time .
Dynamic Binding: In Dynamic binding compiler doesn’t decide the method to be called. Overriding is a perfect
example of dynamic binding. In overriding both parent and child classes have same method .







